you're like I'm your worst mom nightmare
because my son only eats chicken fingers
I wear leather I had cancer I know maybe
I wouldn't know if I was like a clean
healthy ADA her so what would you say
and do you judge
you're very outspoken and everything
that you say so do you ever feel judged
and do you judge Wow there is a bit of a
subtle irony here in contrasting the
topic of this video to Alicia
Silverstone to the promoter of the kind
diet she used this term the kind diets
refer veganism um and in that little
clip of an interview it's obvious that
she is perceived as judgmental and
outspoken what she says no matter how
you market it no matter how kind you
pretend to be people are going to
perceive you in the workplace in your
own family etc etc as outspoken and
judgmental and they are going to feel
they're gonna feel judged they're gonna
feel spoken to how else am I going to
say it no matter how you approach these
things veganism as a diet as a political
practice as an ideology veganism is
simple but it's not easy I think we have
to keep in mind that's simple and easy
are two very different things whether
we're talking about the simplicity of
veganism as an ethical concept as a
moral argument it's simple a child can
understand it's simple but it's not easy
it's not easy to explain it's not easy
to live with it's not easy to convince
others though or even if we're talking
about the nutritional side of it the
advantages veganism has a diet are stark
they're striking they're shocking they
show up in the epidemiology they show up
under a million different headings most
obviously heart attacks cancer etc etc
but nevertheless simple is not easy even
though the advantage of the vegan diet
may be simple simple to convey simple to
prove simple to believe in still living
with the vegan diet is not easy
convincing others to live is not easy
and just maintaining your sense of space
and boundaries
is not easy so I've got a letter here
from a longtime supporter on patreon
Curtis aka not Curtis Curtis wrote into
me thanks very much for your support
Curtis I do indeed rely on the one
dollar a month the people who value this
channel want this channel to continue
the people who want to talk to me and
people want me to take the time to read
their comments and write back to them
Curtis was replying to an earlier video
I made in response to a bodybuilder
professional bodybuilder use of the
YouTube channel named BIOS three
training well I talked about the kind of
respect that day-to-day vegans have to
fight for just to maintain their sense
of boundaries in the workplace just to
avoid things such as what Curtis talks
about here other people forcing you to
eat meat other people disrespecting you
actively getting your face interfering
with your day-to-day the Curtis right in
response to that video this brings to
mind a couple of recent events and
discussions around them in the workplace
during one of the monthly staff lunches
of my workplace were consultants about
50 percent of us regularly working
remotely so it's also a team-building
exercise
the vegan option ordered for me at a
Mexican restaurant was veggie nachos -
the cheese and sour cream but it had
sour cream anyway one co-worker was
insisting that I should eat it and their
repeated insistence on this turned into
a heated discussion I ended it with
quote I don't just not expect you to
agree I expect you to never care about
animal ethics we're only having this
discussion because you can't show me the
respect I deserve
and you won't [ __ ] off another encounter
in a previous month involved a co-worker
trying to slip meat into my food as a
prank it very nearly became a physical
confrontation oh and today there is a
homemade sausage competition five meters
from my office window today smelling
gross burning fat that got torn from a
feeling animal's body hearing hurdy
guffaws at jokes about heart attacks etc
it is not a good day to be beating for
me
so look guys it is a struggle and that's
what this channel is all about at its
core is talking about that struggle yes
I'm interested in the future of the
movement yes inter skinning
politically organized to make a positive
difference yes I'm interested in
publishing a children's storybook doing
outreach and education and all kinds of
positive things for future movement but
at its core the reason why I record
videos talking about my feelings and
talking about my life and what have you
one of my main reasons for doing this is
exactly to share with others what that
struggle is and when I first came on
YouTube it seemed to me that everyone
was just giving this candy coated
picture of veganism that instantly your
hair and skin get better that your life
becomes so fabulous but they're fixed so
wonderful and nobody was talking about
the struggle and you know piece by piece
I do see other vegan youtubers coming
online keeping it real keeping it raw
talking about exactly what it is day in
day out whether it's your own family in
the workplace or what have you that
makes it a struggle but I find that
these concepts this whole overly
familiar language of don't judge me I
won't judge you it's shockingly
irrelevant to what that struggle is and
how it works day in day out the people
who will not respect you if you are a
dogmatic and uncompromising vegan do you
actually think they'll respect you more
if you're a wimp if you back down if
you're non-dogmatic non-judgmental
vacillating and compromising I mean if
you give an inch you think they won't
take a mile if you say it's no big deal
for you to eat cheese pizza at the
office meeting or you need chips with
sour cream on them wherever the other
grows you think they'll respect you more
when you show them how little morality
matters to you as opposed to showing you
how much it matters I doubt that I think
we really have a culture that in a very
false and incidence ear way valorizes
compromise and it's worth examining why
we valorize compromise why it is that we
assume that being uncompromising is
going to lead to negative outcomes and
at being compromising is going to lead
to positive ones I just end you judge
Wow
oh hi I'm dive we're so cool but the
kinda is there's room for everyone like
at the ice age people eat a burger while
you're reading it whatever however you
got to read it so that you can find if
you want to feel your best you want to
really look your best two's not so bad
but if you want to feel better than
you've ever felt and really connect to
who you truly are as vegans in our own
private lives in our political lives we
have enough time to try every which way
try every wish every maybe at one job at
one time you try being compromising and
vacillating maybe in some context you
just don't mention that you're vegan at
all the food just sits there and you
don't eat it you don't even tell people
why you know life is long you'll get to
try many different strategies see many
different results from them but the
bottom line is if you want people to
respect you you've got to tell them who
you are why you are this way and why it
matters so much to you and I think
you're always going to get better
results if you're honest with people
about that if you're honest about what
it means in your life why it's a
struggle for you why you think it's
worthwhile and if you don't pretend that
you live in this judgement free zone
oh you don't judge me I don't judge you
then we all get along because ultimately
what we care about is vegans our
outcomes and not egos it's not about my
ego it's not about your ego at the end
of the day it's about the blood and
feces of millions of cows pouring into
the rivers and oceans all around the
world
it's about suffering an ecological
devastation on a literally unimaginable
scale in order to produce food that is
not only unnecessary but is actually
unhealthy for a population of billions
of people living in a state of voluntary
ignorance veganism
either you are going to stand up and say
it ends here it ends with my plate it
ends with my decision or you're going to
shrug your shoulders and say me too
because you don't want to cause five
seconds of this disruption when you sit
down with another mom in between I don't
even know I describe this at least
you're Silverstone sitting down with two
other parents
or you don't want to disrupt the meeting
with your co-workers or whatever that
social situation may be ultimately
veganism is based on a rejection of
convenience because some things matter
more than convenience whether you think
of that in terms of morality ecology
health or all of the above if your
morality matters less than your
momentary convenience what you're really
saying is that you matter less and you
can't expect anyone to take you
seriously ah ba Liu Yin